---
title: "The start of my 30s"
author: Michael John Peña
draft: false
date: 2022-10-22
image: /2022/10/mjtpena-30.jpg
url: /blog/turning-30/
tags:
  - personal
  - family
  - finance
---

My 20s is officially over. The last 10 years have been a blast.

**TLDR:**

- Family Man. Got married and have 2 children.
- Migrated to Australia (from the Philippines), permanently.
- Became successful with my career in technology (subjectively).
- Became self-employed and ventured on businesses.
- Became more financially literate and avoid debt.
- Really adopted the “lifelong learner” attitude.
- Values time as the most scarce resource.
- Understood more about mental models, principles, and philosophies.
- I gave more attention to physical and mental health.
- More appreciation of books and high-valued contents.

**What I want to work on in the next 10 years:**

- To not miss important dates and milestones of my children.
- To spend more quality time with my wife and support her in all aspects of her life.
- To travel more with my family and friends.
- I want to _financially_ retire at age 40. Financial freedom for my family.
- Grow successful ventures and businesses (not just myself).
- To grow high performing teams not just in numbers, but also in quality.
- Read/Consume an equivalent of 500 books.
- Finish a marathon and complete a triathlon.
- To be a positive inspiration to the youth.
- Publish another technical book.

**Key Lessons learned:**

- Money is not the goal, it’s just the instrument to achieve the desired outcome.
- You don’t need everyone’s validation. You have your own life to live and nurture.
- We are in an eternal struggle to live “for the present”.
- Say “No” more often. Gone are the “Bravado” days.
- Avoid the defaults and being on auto-pilot. Take action and control of your life.
- You cannot do everything, but can absolutely do anything with sheer focus and determination.
- Turn off your push notifications except for family SMS/voice calls.
- If you are a “Co-Founder”, you need to be hands on. There is no concept of “just this.”
- To be successful, you have to be lucky. To be lucky more often means you take actions to increase your odds.
- Give yourself the permission to grow. There is always a reason to be humble.

---
