---
title: "Test Driven Development in Rust"
author: MJ Peña
draft: false
date: 2022-12-19
image: /2022/12/rust-tdd.png
url: /blog/rust-tdd/
tags:
  - personal
  - family
  - finance
---

Test Driven Development, or TDD, is a software development process that involves writing tests for your code before writing the actual code itself. This helps to ensure that your code is robust and free of bugs, as you are able to test it thoroughly before it is even written. In this blog post, we'll look at how to implement TDD in the Rust programming language, with some code examples to help illustrate the process.

To get started with TDD in Rust, you'll need to have a few things set up. First, you'll need to have the Rust programming language installed on your system. You can do this by following the instructions on the Rust website. You'll also need to have a testing framework set up. In Rust, the most popular testing framework is called cargo test.

Once you have these things set up, you're ready to start writing tests! In Rust, tests are defined using the #[test] attribute. Here's an example of a simple test that checks that the add function correctly adds two numbers together:

```
#[test]
fn test_add() {
    assert_eq!(add(2, 3), 5);
}
```

Now let's say that we want to implement the add function. In TDD, we would write the test first, and then write the code to make the test pass. Here's what the implementation of the add function might look like:

```
fn add(a: i32, b: i32) -> i32 {
    a + b
}
```

With these two pieces of code, we have a fully functional test-driven development process in Rust. We wrote a test that defined the behavior we wanted our code to have, and then we wrote the code to make the test pass.

There are many other features and techniques that you can use when practicing TDD in Rust. For example, you can use the assert! macro to check for more complex conditions, and you can use the should_panic attribute to test that your code panics under certain circumstances.

Overall, Test Driven Development is a powerful technique for ensuring that your code is correct and reliable. By writing tests before writing your code, you can catch bugs early on and avoid costly debugging sessions later on. If you're interested in learning more about TDD in Rust, be sure to check out the [documentation](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch11-00-testing.html) and resources available online.
